Pages: 8
--- PAGE 1 ---
New Learning-Assisted Memetic Algorithm for the
Close-Enough Traveling Salesman Problem
(LA-CETSP)
Demir Balemir, Deniz Cant ¨urk, Tansel D ¨okero˘glu
Department of Computer Engineering, TED University
Abstract—The Close-Enough Traveling Salesman Problem
(CETSP) is a geometric variant of the classical Traveling
Salesman Problem in which each target is associated with a
circular neighborhood, and visiting any point within this region
is considered sufficient. Building on the success of the state-
of-the-art Memetic Algorithm for CETSP (MA-CETSP), this
study proposes a learning-assisted extension aimed at reducing
computational overhead by filtering unpromising offspring prior
to local search. While MA-CETSP combines multi-step crossover,
variable neighborhood descent (VND), and diversity-preserving
population management to achieve strong performance, evaluat-
ing every generated offspring with VND remains computationally
expensive. To address this limitation, we modify the algorithm
to record detailed geometric and cost-based features for each
individual and train survival analysis models—namely Cox
Proportional Hazards, Random Survival Forest, and Gradient
Boosting Survival Analysis—to estimate each offspring’s likeli-
hood of survival in the population. Experiments conducted on
4 benchmark instances demonstrate that the learning-assisted
variants can prune approximately 13–26% of generated off-
spring, substantially reducing redundant local search calls while
maintaining competitive solution quality. Among the evaluated
models, Cox PH provides the strongest pruning effect with
minimal degradation, RSF achieves the most balanced trade-off
between pruning and stability, and GBSA yields the best single-
run solution but exhibits higher variability. Overall, the results
indicate that learning-based survival prediction is an effective and
promising strategy for accelerating metaheuristic optimization in
geometric routing problems.
Index Terms—CETSP, Memetic Algorithm, Learn Heuristics,
Machine Learning, Survival Models, Optimization
I. INTRODUCTION
The Close-Enough Traveling Salesman Problem (CETSP)
is a geometric variant of the classical Traveling Salesman
Problem (TSP), in which each target is associated with a cir-
cular neighborhood of radiusr i, and visiting any point within
this region is considered sufficient. This relaxed formulation
is especially effective in modern application domains where
exact point visitation is not necessary. Notably, CETSP is
widely used in wireless sensor network data collection [1],
where mobile agents gather data as long as they enter each
sensor’s communication radius, reducing energy consumption
and travel cost. It also plays a key role in autonomous vehi-
cle and UA V navigation [2], where waypoint approximation
increases robustness under localization uncertainty, as well
as in robotic inspection and maintenance[3], where robots
only need to enter an operational region around infrastructure
elements such as turbines, pipes, or surface defects. Additional
applications include environmental monitoring and precision
agriculture [4], where sensing or sampling regions—rather
than exact coordinates—offers greater flexibility. These diverse
use cases highlight CETSP as a practical geometric routing
model in autonomous and data-driven systems.
Memetic algorithms (MAs), specifically the MA-CETSP
proposed by Lei and Hao (2024), represent the state-of-the-
art for the CETSP [5]. MA-CETSP achieved strong results
through a combination of multi-step crossover (MSX), variable
neighborhood descent (VND) local search, and diversity-
preserving population management. Although recent parallel
metaheuristics have achieved remarkable solution quality and
identified new best-known solutions for CETSP [6], they
often require substantial computational time for large-scale
instances (e.g., over 30,000 seconds for 1000-node problems).
This highlights the critical need for learning-based filtration
mechanisms that can 

--- PAGE 2 ---
•The proposed approach is empirically evaluated on the
4 benchmark instances, where it is shown that 13–23%
of offspring can be pruned while maintaining competitive
overall solution quality.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II provides a literature review of the CETSP and the MA-
CETSP framework. Section III presents the proposed learning-
assisted extension and the integration of survival models.
Section IV reports the experimental setup and results. Section
V discusses the experimental findings. Finally, Section VI
concludes the study and outlines future research directions.
II. PREVIOUSWORK
A. Early and Exact Approaches
The Close-Enough Traveling Salesman Problem (CETSP)
was first introduced by Gulczynski et al. (2006) as a relaxation
of the classical TSP, where visiting any point within a prede-
fined disk around each target is sufficient. Early studies relied
on three-phase heuristics that generated feasible supernode
sets, constructed tours, and improved them through local
adjustments based on Steiner-zone concepts [7]. Subsequent
research explored exact formulations using Mixed-Integer
Programming (MIP) and Second-Order Cone Programming
(SOCP) models [8], [9]. These methodologies yielded optimal
answers for small to moderate cases but saw exponential
increases in calculation time as the problem scale expanded.
To address scalability, Carrabs et al. (2017, 2020) proposed
adaptive discretization schemes that transform the continuous
CETSP into discrete subproblems solvable by classical opti-
mization techniques [10], [11]. Their variable-neighborhood
search (VNS) heuristics obtained better bounds and faster
runtimes, positioning discretization-based metaheuristics as
viable alternatives to exact approaches.
B. Metaheuristic and Hybrid Methods
The focus of CETSP research later shifted toward
population-based and hybrid metaheuristics that balance ex-
ploration and exploitation. Yang et al. (2018) introduced a
hybrid Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO)–Genetic Algorithm
(GA) framework, while Di Placido et al. (2022) proposed a
GA enhanced with SOCP refinement and 2-opt local search,
obtaining 32 new best solutions on standard benchmarks.
These studies showed that concurrent local optimization and
global evolutionary search can provide highly competitive
outcomes.
Building on these insights, Lei and Hao (2024) devel-
oped the Memetic Algorithm for CETSP (MA-CETSP),
which integrates a multi-step crossover (MSX), variable-
neighborhood descent (VND) local search, and a diversity-
preserving population-management scheme. Their method
achieved 30 new best-known solutions out of 62 instances,
outperforming previous metaheuristics. However, like the
majority of evolutionary frameworks, MA-CETSP relies on
stochastic exploration without learnt guidance, which results
in unnecessary computational expense and recurrent evaluation
of individuals of low quality. The incorporation of data-
driven prediction into the search process is motivated by this
constraint.
More recently, Derouiche et al. (2025) proposed ”deep
crossover” schemes to enhance genetic exploration by gen-
erating larger pools of offspring [12].
C. Learning-Based Optimization
Recent years have witnessed rapid progress in applying
machine learning to combinatorial optimization. Deep Re-
inforcement Learning (DRL) models such as the Pointer
Network [13], Attention Model (AM) [14], and POMO [15]
have achieved near-optimal performance on the TSP with
remarkable inference speed. Fan et al. (2025) extended these
ideas to the CETSP by proposing a Unified Dual-Decoder
DRL (UD3RL) framework that formulates the problem as a
Markov Decision Process (MDP) and employs a Transformer-
based encoder with k-nearest-neighbor subgraph reasoning.
Although DRL methods exhibit strong generalization and
runtime efficiency, they typically replace classical optimization
procedures rather than enhance them.
Our project adopts a complementary direction: instead of
ful

--- PAGE 3 ---
1)Average Edge Length(avg_edge_length): The
mean Euclidean distance between consecutive points in
the pre-VND tour. This feature reflects the general scale
and smoothness of the individual’s geometry.
2)Edge Length Variance(var_edge_length): Mea-
sures the variability of segment lengths in the tour. Large
variance values typically indicate irregular or unstable
offspring structures.
3)Bounding Box Geometry:
•bbox_width
•bbox_height
•bbox_area
These describe the minimal axis-aligned rectangle en-
closing the tour. They capture the spatial spread of
the solution, helping differentiate tightly clustered tours
from those that span a wide region.
4)Centroid Coordinate(centroid_x,centroid_y):
The(x, y)coordinates of the tour’s geometric center.
These provide coarse information about the global po-
sition of the route inside the instance.
5)Centroid Distance Sum(centroid_dist_sum):
The sum of all point-to-centroid distances. This metric
captures overall dispersion: high values correspond to
tours that are more spread out or unbalanced.
6)Angle Variance(angle_variance): The variance of
consecutive turning angles along the tour. High angle
variance indicates erratic turning behavior, often char-
acteristic of low-quality or unrefined offspring.
7)Pre-VND Cost(pre_vnd_cost): The objective value
before local optimization. This acts as a strong baseline
indicator of solution quality and is one of the most
influential predictors of survival.
8)Survival Time(survival_time): The number of
iterations between the individual’s birth and its removal
from the population. This is used as the survival duration
in the machine learning models.
9)Event Indicator(event_observed): A binary label
indicating whether the individual died (1) or was still
alive at the censoring point (0). This serves as the event
flag required by survival analysis models.
For each logged individual, the algorithm additionally
records itsbirth iteration,death iteration, and acensored
flag, allowing the dataset to be directly formatted for survival
analysis.
B. Changes in the MA-CETSP Framework
To integrate the learning-assisted mechanism, the main
structure of the MA-CETSP was modified as illustrated in
Algorithm 1 and Fig. 1. Two new steps were introduced
before local search: a predictive evaluation step that estimates
offspring quality using the trained model, and a filtering step
that removes or down-weights unpromising individuals before
local search.
Algorithm 1Main framework of the Learning-Assisted MA-CETSP
Require:InstanceI, maximum number of generationsItermax,
patience parameterρ
Ensure:The best solutionS∗
1:Iter←0,Iter ρ ←0▷current generation and stagnation
counter
2:I←P reprocessing(I)
3:P←Initialization(I)
4:S ∗ ←BestSolution(P)
5:whileIter < ItermaxandIterρ ≤ρdo
6:S A, SB ←RandomP arents(P)
7:S ′ ←M SX(SA, SB)▷multi-step crossover
8:S ′ ←M utation(S′)
9:S ′ ←EvaluateByM odel(S′)▷model-based quality
estimate
10:S ′ ←F ilterLowQuality(S′)▷discard weak offspring
before VND
11:ifS ′ is not discardedthen
12:S ′ ←V N D(S′)▷variable neighbourhood descent
(selectively applied)
13:end if
14:P←P opulationM anagement(S ′, P)
15:S best←BestSolution(P)
16:iff(S best)< f(S∗)then
17:S ∗ ←Sbest;Iter ρ ←0
18:else
19:Iter ρ ←Iterρ + 1
20:end if
21:Iter←Iter+ 1
22:end while
23:returnS ∗
The modified framework embeds a predictive step inside
the evolutionary loop, where the trained model evaluates
how promising each offspring is. Unpromising candidates are
filtered outbeforelocal search, so VND is executed only for
high-potential individuals.
1) Algorithmic Modifications :From an algorithmic point
of view, the main MA-CETSP loop is preserved, but two
changes are introduced:
•A model-based pre-screening stage
(EvaluateByModelandFilterLowQuality) is
inserted between mutation and VND. The model
receives the pre-VND tour, computes the engineered
feature vector, and outputs a survival risk score
indicating how likely the individual is to remain in the
population.
•The patience-based ear

--- PAGE 4 ---
CETSP framework arises from the application of Variable
Neighborhood Descent (VND), whose runtime is highly
instance-dependent and influenced by both the number of
neighborhoods explored and the structural properties of can-
didate solutions. Rather than exhibiting a fixed time com-
plexity, VND incurs variable execution cost that typically
dominates the overall runtime of the algorithm. In the proposed
learning-assisted variant, the additional overhead introduced
by survival-based prediction is linear in the number of ex-
tracted features and remains negligible compared to a full
VND call. Letpdenote the fraction of offspring rejected before
local search; in expectation, the number of VND executions is
reduced proportionally byp, thereby decreasing the dominant
runtime component without altering the asymptotic structure
of the evolutionary search process.
3) Logging and Data Collection Extensions :To support
survival modeling, the MA-CETSP codebase was extended
with a dedicated logging mechanism:
•During the first half of the run (up to a prede-
finedTRAINING_TIME),everygenerated individual is
logged. For each solution the algorithm records its birth
iteration, death iteration, survival time (in iterations),
censoring flag, geometric feature vector, and pre-VND
cost.
•At iterationTRAINING_TIME, all individuals that are
still alive in the population are marked as censored (i.e.,
they have survived up to the censoring point) and written
to disk.
•The resulting JSON logs are converted into a tabular
dataset that directly matches the requirements of survival
analysis models, with each row corresponding to one
individual and labeled with a survival duration and an
event indicator.
These extensions turned made the code suitable for adding
and testing new models efficiently.
4) Integration of Machine Learning Models :The frame-
work was generalized to support multiple survival mod-
els via a configuration parameterML_MODEL. At iteration
TRAINING_TIME, the appropriate Python training script is
automatically invoked:
•train_cox.pytrains a Cox proportional hazards
model.
•train_rsf.pytrains a Random Survival Forest.
•train_gbsa.pytrains a Gradient Boosting Survival
Analysis model.
Each script reads the logged solutions, builds the feature ma-
trix and survival labels, fits the model, and serializes it to disk.
On the C++ side, a lightweight prediction interface exports
the offspring’s features as JSON and calls a corresponding
Pythonpredictscript, which loads the trained model and
returns a scalar risk score. This score is then compared against
a rejection threshold to decide whether the offspring should
be discarded before VND or allowed to undergo local search.
For Cox, the threshold is a fixed parameter defined in the
configuration; for RSF and GBSA, the threshold is computed
automatically from the training data (e.g., as the median
predicted risk) and stored in a small metadata file that is read
by the C++ runtime.
C. Rationale for Model Selection
Three survival analysis methods were integrated into our
framework to explore different trade-offs between inter-
pretability, robustness, and predictive power, each offering
complementary strengths for guiding the evolutionary search:
•Cox Proportional Hazards (Cox PH):This classical
semi-parametric model estimates the log hazard as a
linear function of the input features and is fitted by
maximizing the partial likelihood. Its semi-parametric
nature allows for interpretable coefficients, which makes
it possible to assess the relative influence of individual
geometric features on survival risk. As a result, Cox PH
serves as a stable and efficient baseline that provides
insight into which features most strongly correlate with
offspring persistence in the population.
•Random Survival Forests (RSF):A Random Survival
Forest is an ensemble of survival trees trained on boot-
strap samples of the data and uses averaging to improve
predictive accuracy and control over-fitting. Unlike Cox
PH, whic

--- PAGE 5 ---
Fig. 1. Overview of the learning-assisted MA-CETSP workflow, highlighting
model-based filtering prior to variable neighborhood descent.
five times, with 500 iterations per run, on 4 benchmark
instances used in the original paper.
For the learning-based variants, the first 250 generated
offspring were used as training data, and evolution continued
for the remaining 250 iterations under model guidance. Table I
summarizes the results for all methods for thebonus1000
benchmark instance. As seen in the table, each model exhibits
a different trade-off between pruning aggressiveness (per-
centage of offspring rejected before VND) and the resulting
solution quality.
Since the current implementation has only been optimized
for the COX PH model which proved to be working best from
the first 2 benchmark instances, running times are omitted
from them.They are solely for comparing the models. Exper-
iments on the last 2 benchmark instances only compare the
normal algorithm and the COX PH model which also includes
time.
TABLE I
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF THE BASELINE ALGORITHM AND
ML-ASSISTED MODELS ON THEB O N U S1000INSTANCE(5RUNS, 500
ITERATIONS EACH).
Model Train iters Total iters Best cost (min) Best cost (avg) Avg. rejected Rejected (%)
Normal (No ML) 0 500 409.662 413.641 0 0.00Cox PH 250 500 412.289 419.700 57.8 23.12Random Survival Forest 250 500 411.683 419.862 43.4 17.36GBSA 250 500 407.579 422.279 33.2 13.28
Table II examines the pruning behavior of the models
and the corresponding degradation in solution quality. Cox
PH rejected the largest portion of offspring (23.12%), offer-
ing the most aggressive pruning while maintaining a com-
paratively moderate degradation (+1.47%). RSF achieved a
more balanced pruning rate (17.36%) with similar degradation
(+1.51%). GBSA rejected the fewest individuals (13.28%) and
obtained the best single-run solution (407.579), but its average
performance showed more variability, resulting in a higher
overall degradation (+2.09%).
TABLE II
COMPARISON OF PRUNING AGGRESSIVENESS AND AVERAGE SOLUTION
DEGRADATION ACROSS MODELS.
Model Rejected (%) Avg. Rejected Avg. Cost Degradation
Cox PH23.12%(highest) 57.8+1.47%
Random Survival Forest 17.36% 43.4 +1.51%
GBSA 13.28% 33.2 +2.09%
Fig. 2. Illustrative CETSP solution on thebonus1000instance with a
uniform neighborhood radiusr= 12.

--- PAGE 6 ---
TABLE III
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF THE BASELINE ALGORITHM AND
ML-ASSISTED MODELS ON AN ADDITIONALC A R_D O O R_50
CONFIGURATION(5RUNS, 500ITERATIONS EACH).
Model Train iters Total iters Best cost (min) Best cost (avg) Avg. rejected Rejected (%)
Normal (No ML) 0 500 4778.91 4786.15 0 0.00Cox PH 250 500 4778.97 4789.85 65.0 26.00Random Survival Forest 250 500 4778.91 4785.68 39.6 17.24GBSA 250 500 4778.97 4786.84 28.4 11.37
Table IV examines the pruning behavior of the models
and the corresponding degradation in solution quality for the
additional configuration. Cox PH rejected the largest portion of
offspring (26.00%), offering the most aggressive pruning while
maintaining a very limited degradation in average solution
quality (+0.08%). RSF achieved a more balanced pruning rate
(17.24%) and slightly improved the average solution quality
compared to the baseline, resulting in a marginal negative
degradation (-0.01%). GBSA rejected the fewest individuals
(11.37%) and showed only a minor increase in average cost
(+0.01%), indicating stable performance with minimal pruning
aggressiveness.
TABLE IV
COMPARISON OF PRUNING AGGRESSIVENESS AND AVERAGE SOLUTION
DEGRADATION ACROSS MODELS(C A R_D O O R_50) .
Model Rejected (%) Avg. Rejected Avg. Cost Degradation
Cox PH26.00%(highest) 65.0 +0.08%
Random Survival Forest 17.24% 39.6-0.01%
GBSA 11.37% 28.4 +0.01%
Overall, Cox PH demonstrated the strongest acceleration
potential by pruning the largest number of offspring while
maintaining competitive solution quality. RSF provided the
most balanced compromise between pruning rate and solution
stability, whereas GBSA produced the best individual solution
but showed greater variability in its average results.
Fig. 3. Representative CETSP solution for the car-door welding instance with
neighborhood radiusr= 50.
TABLE V
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF THE BASELINE ALGORITHM ANDCOX
PH–ASSISTED MODEL ON THEC O N C E N T R I C_C I R C L E S_4INSTANCE(5
RUNS, 500ITERATIONS EACH).
Model Train iters Total iters Best cost (min) Best cost (avg) Avg. rejected Rejected (%) Avg. running time (s)
Normal (No ML) 0 500 453.676 455.519 0.0 0.00 73.55Cox PH 250 500 454.491 456.241 56.33 22.53 64.99
Fig. 4. Illustrative CETSP tour on theconcentric_circles_4instance
highlighting structured target distributions.
For the remaining two datasets, the experimental analysis
focuses exclusively on the baseline MA-CETSP algorithm and
the Cox PH–assisted variant. This choice is motivated by the
fact that the Cox PH model consistently demonstrated the
most favorable trade-off between pruning effectiveness and
solution quality on the earlier datasets. Moreover, since the
current implementation has been fully optimized only for the
Cox PH model, running time comparisons are reported solely
for this variant, while results from the other survival-based
models are used for qualitative comparison only.It should be
emphasized that the reported running times include the entire
execution process, from the initialization of the algorithm to
termination, encompassing data logging, dataset construction,
model training, and prediction overhead in addition to the
evolutionary search itself.
The Cox PH–assisted variant achieves a reduction of ap-
proximately 11.7% in average running time with only a
marginal degradation in solution quality, highlighting the
effectiveness of survival-based early pruning. It should also
be noted that, for theconcentric_circles_4instance,
the search process typically converges close to the maximum
iteration limit (around 500 iterations). This late-stage conver-
gence behavior naturally limits the impact of early pruning on
the final solution quality, thereby contributing to the relatively
small observed cost degradation.
Compared to the earlier datasets, theteam4_400instance
exhibits a more structured and constrained spatial layout

--- PAGE 7 ---
TABLE VI
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF THE BASELINE ALGORITHM ANDCOX
PH–ASSISTED MODEL ON THET E A M4_400INSTANCE(MULTIPLE RUNS,
500ITERATIONS EACH).
Model Train iters Total iters Best cost (min) Best cost (avg) Avg. rejected Rejected (%) Avg. running time (s)
Normal (No ML) 0 500 689.016 695.218 0.0 0.00 120.12Cox PH 250 500 694.052 696.810 27.67 11.07 116.96
Fig. 5. Representative CETSP solution on the large-scaleteam4_400
benchmark instance.
(Fig. 5) , which typically leads to a more stable evolutionary
search process. As a result, the Cox PH–assisted variant
achieves only a modest reduction in average run time. Since
promising offspring are generated more consistently, the op-
portunity for aggressive early pruning is naturally limited, ex-
plaining both the lower rejection rate and the smaller observed
speed-up relative to less structured instances.
It should also be noted that due to the inherent structural
characteristics of the last two datasets, the standard deviation
of the offspring rejection rates is approximately 50–60%
higher than that observed in the first two datasets. These in-
stances tend to produce a more heterogeneous mix of offspring
quality across runs, resulting in greater variability in prun-
ing behavior. Consequently, while the average rejection rates
remain moderate, the effectiveness of early pruning exhibits
increased sensitivity to run-specific evolutionary dynamics.
V. DISCUSSION
The experimental results demonstrate that learning-
assisted pruning can effectively reduce the computa-
tional burden of MA-CETSP with only a limited im-
pact on the quality of the solution. Across all bench-
mark instances, includingbonus1000,car_door_50,
concentric_circles_4, andteam4_400, survival-
based models successfully identify low-potential offspring
prior to local search, thereby decreasing the number of costly
VND executions.
However, the benchmark instance’s internal structure also
has an noticeable effect.For instances such asbonus1000
andcar_door_50(Fig. 2 and Fig. 3), which exhibit
higher geometric irregularity and a broader distribution of
offspring quality, pruning has a more noticable effect dur-
ing the early and mid stages of the evolutionary process,
leading to clearer runtime reductions with limited solution
degradation. In contrast, instances that tend to converge
later or exhibit more structured spatial layouts, such as
concentric_circles_4andteam4_400(Fig. 4 and
Fig. 5), show greater stability in offspring quality, naturally
limiting the aggressiveness of pruning and resulting in more
modest average speed-ups.
Differences among survival models further highlight the
trade-offs between interpretability and pruning effectiveness.
Cox Proportional Hazards consistently provides stable pruning
behavior with minimal degradation in solution quality across
all datasets, making it particularly suitable for controlled accel-
eration. Ensemble-based methods such as RSF and GBSA, on
the other hand, exhibit higher variability due to their increased
model expressiveness. In particular, GBSA tends to generate
sharper decision boundaries, enabling more aggressive pruning
on heterogeneous instances likebonus1000, but at the cost
of increased variability in average solution quality.
Finally, the observed variance in rejection rates across runs
suggests that pruning behavior is sensitive to the stochastic
dynamics of evolutionary search. This effect is especially pro-
nounced in datasets such asbonus1000andcar_door_50
(Fig. 2 and Fig. 3), where offspring quality distributions
are more diverse. Importantly, the observed variability is a
consequence of the stochastic dynamics of evolutionary search,
not a sign of instability in the proposed framework.
VI. CONCLUSION ANDFUTUREWORK
This study provides a preliminary yet meaningful demon-
stration that survival analysis can be used to guide the
evolutionary dynamics of the MA-CETSP framework. By
augmenting the original algorithm with detailed geometric
and cost-based featur

--- PAGE 8 ---
guide computational resource allocation during the evolution-
ary search process.
Despite these encouraging results, the current prototype
faces practical limitations, most notably the computational
overhead arising from cross-language communication between
the C++ evolutionary engine and the Python-based predictive
models. Addressing this bottleneck is essential to translating
pruning gains into real-world speedups.
Future work will therefore focus on reducing inference
latency through more efficient model deployment strategies,
expanding the experimental evaluation to a broader set of
CETSP benchmark instances with varying geometric prop-
erties, and examining the generalizability of survival-based
pruning when applied to other population-based metaheuris-
tics, such as the recently proposed Parallel Harris Hawks
Optimization algorithm [6].
Additionally, incorporating OpenMP-based parallelization
techniques, as recently explored for CETSP [16], may sub-
stantially reduce overall runtime and further complement the
benefits of model-based pruning. Finally, enhancing the fea-
ture representation with richer geometric or diversity-aware
descriptors represents a promising direction for improving
predictive accuracy and refining pruning selectivity. These
combined efforts aim to evolve the current proof-of-concept
into a scalable, efficient, and broadly applicable learning-
assisted optimization framework for CETSP and related ge-
ometric routing problems.
REFERENCES
[1] H. Zhang and P. Liu, “Region-based tour optimization for mobile data
gathering in large-scale wsns,”IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing,
2025.
[2] A. Moreno and R. Gupta, “Approximate waypoint routing for au-
tonomous uav missions using cetsp,”Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
2025.
[3] J. Li and M. Santos, “Region-constrained path planning for robotic
infrastructure inspection,”Automation in Construction, 2025.
[4] B. Kaya and D. Thompson, “Geometric routing for autonomous agricul-
tural monitoring using cetsp,”Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
2025.
[5] Z. Lei and J.-K. Hao, “An effective memetic algorithm for the close-
enough traveling salesman problem,”Applied Soft Computing, vol. 153,
p. 111266, 2024.
[6] T. Dokeroglu and D. Canturk, “New harris hawks algorithms for the
close-enough traveling salesman problem,”Intelligent Systems with
Applications, vol. 28, p. 200586, 2025.
[7] D. J. Gulczynski, J. W. Heath, and C. C. Price, “The close enough
traveling salesman problem: A discussion of several heuristics,” in
Perspectives in Operations Research(F. B. Alt, M. C. Fu, and B. L.
Golden, eds.), vol. 36 ofOperations Research/Computer Science Inter-
faces Series, pp. 271–283, Boston, MA: Springer, 2006.
[8] B. Behdani and J. C. Smith, “An integer-programming-based approach
to the close-enough traveling salesman problem,”INFORMS Journal on
Computing, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 415–643, 2014.
[9] W. Coutinho, R. Nascimento, A. Pessoa, and A. Subramanian, “A
branch-and-bound algorithm for the close-enough traveling salesman
problem,”INFORMS Journal on Computing, vol. 28, pp. 752–765, 2016.
[10] F. Carrabs, C. Cerrone, R. Cerulli, and M. Gaudioso, “A novel dis-
cretization scheme for the close enough traveling salesman problem,”
Computers & Operations Research, vol. 78, pp. 163–171, 2017.
[11] F. Carrabs, C. Cerrone, R. Cerulli, and B. Golden, “An adaptive heuristic
approach to compute upper and lower bounds for the close-enough
traveling salesman problem,”INFORMS Journal on Computing, vol. 32,
no. 4, pp. 1030–1048, 2020.
[12] H. Derouiche, M. Elarbi, and S. Bechikh, “Deep crossover schemes
for genetic algorithms: Investigations on the travel salesman problem,”
Swarm and Evolutionary Computation, vol. 98, p. 102094, 2025.
[13] I. Bello, H. Pham, Q. V . Le, M. Norouzi, and S. Bengio, “Neural
combinatorial optimization with reinforcement learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:1611.09940, 2016.
[14] W. Kool, H. van Hoof, and M. Welling, “Attention, learn to solve routing
proble

